Command-line options


==Syntax==
{{{
  java -jar winstone.jar [--option=value] [--option=value] etc
}}}


==Usage==
{{{
java winstone.Launcher [--option=value] [--option=value] [etc]
}}}

==Required options==
either --webroot OR --warfile OR --webappsDir OR --hostsDir
{{{
   --webroot                = set document root folder.
   --warfile                = set location of warfile to extract from.
   --webappsDir             = set directory for multiple webapps to be deployed from
   --hostsDir               = set directory for name-based virtual hosts to be deployed from
}}}
==Other options==
{{{
   --javaHome               = Override the JAVA_HOME variable
   --toolsJar               = The location of tools.jar. Default is JAVA_HOME/lib/tools.jar
   --config                 = load configuration properties from here. Default is ./winstone.properties
   --prefix                 = add this prefix to all URLs (eg http://localhost:8080/prefix/resource). Default is none
   --tempDirectory          = specify a default temporary directory.
   --commonLibFolder        = folder for additional jar files. Default is ./lib
   --logfile                = redirect winstone log messages to this file
   --logThrowingLineNo      = show the line no that logged the message (slow). Default is false
   --logThrowingThread      = show the thread that logged the message. Default is false
   --debug                  = set the level of debug msgs (1-9). Default is 5 (INFO level)
   --httpPort               = set the http listening port. -1 to disable, Default is 8080
   --httpListenAddress      = set the http listening address. Default is all interfaces
   --httpDoHostnameLookups  = enable host name lookups on incoming http connections (true/false). Default is false
   --httpsPort              = set the https listening port. -1 to disable, Default is disabled
   --httpsListenAddress     = set the https listening address. Default is all interfaces
   --httpsDoHostnameLookups = enable host name lookups on incoming https connections (true/false). Default is false
   --httpsKeyStore          = the location of the SSL KeyStore file. Default is ./winstone.ks
   --httpsKeyStorePassword  = the password for the SSL KeyStore file. Default is null
   --httpsKeyManagerType    = the SSL KeyManagerFactory type (eg SunX509, IbmX509). Default is SunX509
   --ajp13Port              = set the ajp13 listening port. -1 to disable, Default is 8009
   --ajp13ListenAddress     = set the ajp13 listening address. Default is all interfaces
   --controlPort            = set the shutdown/control port. -1 to disable, Default disabled
   --controlAddress         = set the ip address which the control listener should bind to, Default is local host
   --handlerCountStartup    = set the no of worker threads to spawn at startup. Default is 5
   --handlerCountMax        = set the max no of worker threads to allow. Default is 300
   --handlerCountMaxIdle    = set the max no of idle worker threads to allow. Default is 50
   --directoryListings      = enable directory lists (true/false). Default is true
   --useJasper              = enable jasper JSP handling (true/false). Default is false
   --useServletReloading    = enable servlet reloading (true/false). Default is false
   --preferredClassLoader   = override the preferred webapp class loader.
   --useInvoker             = enable the servlet invoker (true/false). Default is true
   --invokerPrefix          = set the invoker prefix. Default is /servlet/
   --simulateModUniqueId    = simulate the apache mod_unique_id function. Default is false
   --useSavedSessions       = enables session persistence (true/false). Default is false
   --usage / --help         = show this message
}}}
===Cluster options===
{{{
   --useCluster             = enable cluster support (true/false). Default is false
   --clusterClassName       = Set the cluster class to use. Defaults to SimpleCluster class
   --clusterNodes           = a comma separated list of node addresses (IP:ControlPort,IP:ControlPort,etc)
}}}
===JNDI options===
{{{
   --useJNDI                      = enable JNDI support (true/false). Default is false
   --containerJndiClassName       = Set the container wide JNDI manager class to use. Defaults to ContainerJNDIManager
   --webappJndiClassName          = Set the web-app JNDI manager class to use. Defaults to WebAppJNDIManager
   --jndi.resource.<name>         = set the class to be used for the resource marked <name>
   --jndi.param.<name>.<attName>  = set an attribute <attName> to be associated with the resource marked <name>
}}}
===Security options===
{{{
   --realmClassName               = Set the realm class to use for user authentication. Defaults to ArgumentsRealm class
   --argumentsRealm.passwd.<user> = Password for user <user>. Only valid for the ArgumentsRealm realm class
   --argumentsRealm.roles.<user>  = Roles for user <user> (comma separated). Only valid for the ArgumentsRealm realm class
   --fileRealm.configFile         = File containing users/passwds/roles. Only valid for the FileRealm realm class
}}}
===Access logging===
{{{
   --accessLoggerClassName        = Set the access logger class to use for user authentication. Defaults to disabled
   --simpleAccessLogger.format    = The log format to use. Supports combined/common/resin/custom (SimpleAccessLogger only)
   --simpleAccessLogger.file      = The location pattern for the log file(SimpleAccessLogger only)
}}}